.\"
.\" "$Id$"
.\"
.\" mxmldoc man page for mini-XML, a small XML-like file parsing library.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003-2007 by Michael Sweet.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH mxmldoc 1 "Mini-XML" "22 April 2007" "Michael Sweet"
.SH NAME
mxmldoc \- mini-xml documentation generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mxmldoc
--no-output [
.I filename.xml
]
.I source file(s)
]
.br
.B mxmldoc
[ --intro
.I introfile
] [ --section
.I section
] [ --title
.I title
] [
.I filename.xml
] [
.I source file(s)
] >
.I filename.html
.br
.B mxmldoc
--man
.I manpage
[ --intro
.I introfile
] [ --section
.I section
] [ --title
.I title
] [
.I filename.xml
] [
.I source file(s)
] >
.I filename.man
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImxmldoc\fR scans the specified C and C++ source files to produce
an XML representation of globally accessible classes, constants,
enumerations, functions, structures, typedefs, unions, and variables
- the XML file is updated as necessary. By default, a HTML
representation of the XML file is written to the standard output.
Use the \fI--no-output\fR option to disable the HTML output.
.PP
Man page source can be generated using the \fI--man\fR option.
.PP
If no source files are specified then the current XML file is
converted to the standard output.
.PP
In general, any C or C++ source code is handled by \fImxmldoc\fR,
however it was specifically written to handle code with
documentation that is formatted according to the CUPS Developer
Guide which is available at "http://www.cups.org/documentation.php".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\--intro introfile
.br
Inserts the specified file at the top of the output documentation.
.TP 5
\--man manpage
.br
Generated a man page instead of HTML documentation.
.TP 5
\--no-output
.br
Disables generation of documentation on the standard output.
.TP 5
\--section section
.br
Sets the section/keywords in the output documentation.
.TP 5
\--title title
.br
Sets the title of the output documentation.
.SH SEE ALSO
mxml(3), Mini-XML Programmers Manual, http://www.easysw.com/~mike/mxml/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2003-2007 by Michael Sweet.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id$".
.\"
