.\"
.\" "$Id$"
.\"
.\" mxmldoc man page for mini-XML, a small XML-like file parsing library.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003-2005 by Michael Sweet.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH mxmldoc 1 "mini-XML" "2 December 2005" "Michael Sweet"
.SH NAME
mxmldoc \- mini-xml documentation generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mxmldoc
[ --intro
.I introfile.html
] [ --section
.I section
] [ --title
.I title
] [
.I filename.xml
] [
.I source file(s)
] >
.I filename.html
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImxmldoc\fR scans the specified C and C++ source files to
produce an XML representation of globally accessible classes,
constants, enumerations, functions, structures, typedefs,
unions, and variables. The XML file is updated as necessary and
a HTML representation of the XML file is written to the standard
output. If no source files are specified then the current XML
file is converted to HTML on the standard output.
.PP
In general, any C or C++ source code is handled by
\fImxmldoc\fR, however it was specifically written to handle
code with documentation that is formatted according to the CUPS
Configuration Management Plan which is available at
"http://www.cups.org/documentation.php".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\--intro introfile.html
.br
Inserts the specified file at the top of the output documentation.
.TP 5
\--section section
.br
Sets the section/keywords in the output documentation.
.TP 5
\--title title
.br
Sets the title of the output documentation.
.SH SEE ALSO
mxml(3), Mini-XML Programmers Manual, http://www.easysw.com/~mike/mxml/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2003-2005 by Michael Sweet.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id$".
.\"
